Ryan (Sales): Thanks everyone for jumping on — um, today I thought we'd tackle the, like, competitive evaluation questions head on and go through the ROI data you asked about.
Priya (SE): And I'm Priya, Solutions Engineer — I'll, uh, handle the technical comparisons and anything product-specific that comes up.
Nadia (CPO): Hi, Nadia here — Chief People Officer at Stonegate Consulting. We're, um, 650 employees across four offices, US, UK, Australia, and Singapore.
Nadia (CPO): I'll be honest with you — we're evaluating you, BambooHR, and Workday and, like, trying to figure out whether we actually need Workday at our size.
Felix (CFO): Felix, CFO. My job today is to, uh, stress-test the numbers. The ROI claim of 194 percent in six months that your team mentioned last week — I want to, you know, understand exactly what that means.
Lena (HR Ops): Lena, HR Operations Manager. I'm the one who'll actually implement and run this if we buy it, so I care, um, about the practical side — timelines, how hard is it to configure, what happens when things go wrong.
Ryan (Sales): Perfect — those are, like, exactly the right questions from each of those perspectives. Felix, do you want to, uh, start with the ROI methodology since you flagged that first?
Felix (CFO): Yes — 194 percent in six months sounds, um, like a marketing number. Walk me through how it's actually calculated.
Ryan (Sales): Completely fair. So the formula is, like, standard ROI — value delivered minus total platform cost, divided by total platform cost, over six months.
Ryan (Sales): Value is broken into four measured categories. First — labour savings from workflow automation and eliminating, um, manual reconciliation. Average 18 hours per HR FTE per week recovered.
Ryan (Sales): Second — recruitment efficiency from ATS consolidation. Average 23 percent reduction in time-to-hire across, you know, the study cohort.
Ryan (Sales): Third — payroll error reduction. Average 81 percent fewer payroll correction requests in the first six months. Fourth — HR ticket volume reduction from self-service adoption, um, 42 percent on average.
Felix (CFO): And the data — is that self-reported by customers or, like, independently verified?
Ryan (Sales): Each customer provided their own data — not estimated by us. And for the, uh, quantifiable categories it was validated against system logs where possible. Audit logs confirm actual HR ticket volume, payroll correction logs confirm error rates.
Ryan (Sales): I can share the full methodology document. It goes into, um, exactly which customers provided which data points and which categories were excluded when customer data wasn't available.
Felix (CFO): That level of transparency is, uh, actually unusual. Most vendors just quote a headline number. I'd like to see the methodology doc.
Ryan (Sales): I'll send it after the call. Okay — Nadia, you mentioned the Workday evaluation. Can I ask what, like, specifically you're evaluating Workday for?
Nadia (CPO): Honestly the, um, brand more than anything specific. Our board keeps saying "shouldn't we be on Workday at this stage?"
Ryan (Sales): I want to give you an honest answer on this rather than just, like, sell against them. Workday is genuinely excellent for very large, complex organisations — typically 5,000 plus employees — with sophisticated financial management requirements.
Ryan (Sales): For 650 employees, the question is whether the specific Workday capabilities you need, um, justify what the deployment actually costs. And I'd encourage you to ask Workday for a total cost of ownership number, not just the licence.
Felix (CFO): What does a Workday deployment typically cost for a company our size? We haven't got to, uh, that stage in the conversation yet.
Ryan (Sales): Based on, like, publicly available data and what customers who've come to us from Workday evaluations share — the Workday HCM licence for 650 employees is typically $18 to $22 PEPM, and implementation requires a certified partner.
Ryan (Sales): That implementation typically costs $75,000 to $200,000 in consulting fees and takes, um, six to twelve months. And there's usually an ongoing 15 to 20 percent annual maintenance fee back to the implementation partner.
Felix (CFO): So three-year total cost of ownership for Workday at, uh, 650 employees — what does that come to roughly?
Ryan (Sales): On the numbers I just gave — Workday licence at $20 PEPM for 650 employees is $156,000 a year, times three is $468,000. Add, um, $150,000 one-time implementation and the annual maintenance average at, like, $30,000 a year — you're looking at around $738,000 over three years.
Ryan (Sales): Veltrix Business plan for 650 employees, all four countries in native payroll — $11 PEPM, plus the Singapore and Australia payroll bundles — total roughly, you know, $100,000 a year. Three-year TCO around $315,000 including implementation.
Felix (CFO): So the difference is, uh, around $420,000 over three years. That's a meaningful number to take to the board.
Nadia (CPO): But is there anything, like, Workday does that Veltrix genuinely can't do at our size?
Ryan (Sales): Honest answer — Workday's financial management suite. If you need HR and finance on the same platform with deep general ledger integration and multi-entity financial consolidation, that's, um, a genuine Workday-only capability.
Ryan (Sales): For HR-only use cases at 650 employees — recruitment, onboarding, payroll, performance, learning, people analytics — Veltrix delivers equivalent or, you know, in some areas better capability.
Nadia (CPO): We have a separate finance system we're happy with, so, uh, we don't need Workday Finance. That actually simplifies the question.
Lena (HR Ops): Can I ask about BambooHR? We actually, like, looked at them as a stay-or-upgrade question. What's the honest comparison?
Ryan (Sales): BambooHR is, um, a genuinely good early-stage HRIS. The limitation at your size is four specific gaps.
Ryan (Sales): No native payroll outside the US — for your Australia and Singapore offices you'd still need, like, separate payroll systems. No full LMS — their learning module is basic and requires third-party integration for compliance tracking.
Ryan (Sales): No calibration workflow in performance reviews. And no, uh, predictive people analytics — no attrition modelling, no natural language workforce queries.
Lena (HR Ops): The payroll one is actually, like, a dealbreaker for us. We have four payroll systems right now and the whole point of this exercise is to, um, reduce that number, not keep it the same.
Ryan (Sales): Right — and on BambooHR Advantage for your 650 employees, you'd be paying roughly $8 to $9 PEPM for the core HR with no payroll. Then you'd still need to pay, like, separately for AU and Singapore payroll, plus a separate LMS.
Ryan (Sales): When you model that equivalent feature set, the BambooHR stack is typically, um, more expensive than Veltrix once you add the missing tools. I can put a comparison table together if that's useful for your evaluation.
Felix (CFO): Yes — please do that. A like-for-like cost comparison would be, uh, very useful for our board presentation.
Nadia (CPO): Can I ask about the implementation? We're a professional services firm and our, like, employees work across multiple client engagements at the same time. Does Veltrix handle matrix reporting?
Priya (SE): Yes — the Core HR module supports, um, matrix reporting natively. An employee can have a primary line manager plus one or more project or functional reporting relationships.
Priya (SE): Performance review routing can, like, respect either or both reporting lines depending on your config. So project managers can submit feedback into the review process even if the primary review is owned by, you know, the line manager.
Nadia (CPO): That's important because we have partners who, uh, manage client teams but don't line-manage those individuals. Being able to pull their feedback into the annual review is something we, like, try to do manually now.
Priya (SE): The 360-degree feedback workflow in the Performance module, um, automatically identifies all reporting relationships within the review period and sends each a structured feedback request. It's fully, you know, configurable by cycle.
Lena (HR Ops): What's the, uh, realistic implementation timeline for a company our size with four offices and four payroll countries?
Priya (SE): For 650 employees with US, UK, Australia, and Singapore in native payroll — all four are, like, native Veltrix payroll countries — you're looking at six to eight weeks.
Priya (SE): The additional complexity versus a single-country deployment is, um, the parallel payroll validation for each jurisdiction. Each country needs its own parallel run — where both old and new systems run, you know, simultaneously for one pay cycle to confirm output consistency before cutover.
Lena (HR Ops): And what if we're not confident by week six — like, what's the, uh, protection if implementation runs over?
Ryan (Sales): Two things. First — the 21-day PoC before you sign anything means you're not, um, starting the implementation cold. SSO, data import, the core payroll configuration — all of that gets done in the PoC.
Ryan (Sales): Second — the Order Form includes a milestone schedule with defined completion criteria. If Veltrix misses a milestone due to, like, our resourcing — not delays on your side — you receive a pro-rata subscription credit for the, you know, delay period.
Felix (CFO): A commercial credit for delays — that's, uh, something I've not seen from a software vendor before. Does that actually hold in the contract?
Ryan (Sales): Yes — it's, um, in the standard Order Form, not just a verbal commitment. I'll include it in the MSA draft so Thomas, or whoever is reviewing it on your side, can see it in, like, black and white.
Lena (HR Ops): What about the learning curve for my team? We've been burned before by, uh, platforms that are technically capable but just — nobody actually uses them.
Ryan (Sales): Yeah — that's, like, a really legitimate concern and honestly the best answer I can give you is empirical rather than a vendor claim.
Ryan (Sales): Average time-to-first-dashboard for a non-technical Veltrix user is, um, 47 minutes from first login. That's from onboarding telemetry across our customer base.
Ryan (Sales): But better than that number — in the PoC, we'll give three to five of your most non-technical team members sandbox access in week two. By week three, you know, you have actual user feedback from your own people rather than a vendor's assurance.
Lena (HR Ops): I really like that. Let our own people, uh, judge it rather than just taking your word for it.
Nadia (CPO): We also have quite a few employees who travel constantly between offices. The, like, mobile app — does it actually work well or is it one of those apps that's technically there but, um, nobody uses it?
Priya (SE): It's, uh, genuinely used. Employees can access payslips, request time off, complete learning modules, and view their goals all in the app. Managers can approve leave and expense requests and, you know, submit performance feedback.
Priya (SE): It also has biometric login — Face ID, fingerprint — and an offline mode that caches payslips and policy docs. So for people on, um, international flights or, like, locations with poor connectivity, the critical content is still accessible.
Nadia (CPO): Offline payslip access is actually, uh, something consultants on client sites ask for. That's a nice detail.
Felix (CFO): Let me come back to the ROI question with a, like, specific scenario. If we have three HR staff spending a combined 20 hours a week on reconciliation and, uh, data maintenance — what does Veltrix do to that?
Ryan (Sales): The study data puts average reconciliation time recovery at 18 hours per HR FTE per week — across customers who, you know, migrated from a similar multi-system stack.
Ryan (Sales): For three FTEs, if you recover even, like, 15 hours per person per week — that's 45 hours across your HR team. At a fully loaded HR staff cost of, um, $35 to $40 an hour, that's $1,575 to $1,800 per week — roughly $80,000 to $93,000 a year in recovered labour value.
Ryan (Sales): Your all-in Veltrix annual cost at 650 employees, all four payroll countries, is approximately $100,000. The, uh, labour saving alone offsets 80 to 93 percent of the subscription cost.
Felix (CFO): So we're, like, essentially getting the ATS, onboarding automation, LMS, and performance module for, um, roughly zero net cost if the labour saving holds.
Ryan (Sales): That's, you know, a reasonable way to frame it. And the PoC will actually, uh, give you a measure of the time saving on your specific workflows rather than relying on the average.
Nadia (CPO): Okay — I think I've heard enough to, like, recommend this to our executive team. What's the next step?
Ryan (Sales): I'd suggest: PoC scoping call this week, I'll get that set up. Simultaneously I'll send the, um, methodology doc for Felix, the Workday vs Veltrix TCO comparison, and the BambooHR feature stack comparison table.
Ryan (Sales): And I'll, uh, arrange a reference call with Apex Engineering Solutions — 620 employees, professional services firm, similar matrix reporting environment. Their CPO is happy to, you know, talk you through the deployment experience.
Lena (HR Ops): The reference call is, uh, actually really valuable. I want to hear from someone who, like, actually implemented it, not just the headline metrics.
Felix (CFO): Agreed. And Ryan — I want that three-year TCO model in a format I can put directly into a board deck. Can you make it, um, look like actual financial modelling rather than a sales slide?
Ryan (Sales): Absolutely — I'll, like, build it in a clean spreadsheet format with your specific headcount and all four payroll countries broken out. Workday and BambooHR stack comparisons in the same model.
Ryan (Sales): I'll have that, uh, out to you by end of tomorrow along with everything else. Really appreciate the, you know, direct conversation today — it makes for a much better evaluation for both sides.
Nadia (CPO): This was genuinely, um, one of the more useful vendor calls I've been on. You didn't dodge a single question. Thanks Ryan, thanks Priya.
Felix (CFO): Agreed — and I, uh, appreciated the honest Workday answer. Most vendors just, like, trash the competition. The fact that you acknowledged where they're strong builds more credibility, not less.
Ryan (Sales): That's, um, genuinely how we want to operate. Look forward to the PoC scoping call — talk soon everyone.